Transit Drive, the main method of FTL travel, has been used for centuries, yet it is still poorly understood. While the mechanics behind the drive itself are known (the fusion of exotic matter to rip open wormholes to a 5D void space, thus creating artificial wormholes between star systems and allowing ships to bypass relativistic travel.), the space that Transit Drive travel passes through is almost entirely a mystery. Void-dark, the realm the drive passes through is entirely devoid of stars, and the only light comes from the flashes of lightning in the gas clouds inside it. Every now and then, people report strange whispers from the void, as well as mysterious shapes moving in the darkness, but no official data on these phenomenon has been collected. Most starships now disable all visual sensors and close external portholes when entering Transit Space, partially to prevent panic among crewmembers, and partly because it is far better to remain hidden to the horrors that may lurk in the starless void between universes.

It is believed that the extradimensional menace, the Horror, originated from Transit Space, alerted to our universe's presence by the use of Transit Drive jumps centuries ago. First revealed after the Devastation of Vaire, they continue a war with the UMBRA initiative to this day. UMBRA's leader, codenamed "The Overseer" has declined to comment on their history with the Horror, but they have noted that "they must be stopped, lest the galaxy falls the same way their world did."

At least two sentient beings originating from Transit Space have been confirmed, one being The Overseer, leader of the UMBRA Defense Initiative, and the other being an entity that remains classified by most military organizations across known space.

Some vessels use more exotic forms of FTL travel, ranging from the Exclusion Drives used by the gargantuan ark-ships of the Terran Exodus (which use a form of superposition to instantly move ships across interstellar distances and possibly across timelines), to the Deep Slip Drives used by both UMBRA and Vairan Union vessels (which shifts vessels into a two-dimensional imaginary space, and then folds that space to facilitate travel at rates slightly slower than Transit Drive, but with a significant boost to stealth due to the lack of a visible wormhole aperture.)

